The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Structure and Habits of Spiders, by 
James Henry Emerton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Structure and Habits of Spiders

Author: James Henry Emerton

Release Date: October 16, 2018 [EBook #58111]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STRUCTURE AND HABITS OF SPIDERS ***




Produced by Paul Marshall, Bryan Ness and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries)









                                  THE
                         STRUCTURE AND HABITS
                                  OF
                               SPIDERS.

                                  BY
                            J. H. EMERTON.

                            [Illustration]

                            _ILLUSTRATED._

                                BOSTON:
                   S. E. CASSINO & CO., PUBLISHERS.
                                 1883.

                              COPYRIGHT.
                           BY S. E. CASSINO.
                                 1878.

                            _Electrotyped_
                       _By C. J. Peters & Son,_
                               _Boston._




PREFACE.


The object of this book is to give a plain account of the best known
habits of spiders, and as much of their anatomy and classification as
is necessary to understand these habits. The portion on the spinning
and flying habits is copied chiefly from Blackwall and Menge; that
on the trap-door spiders from Moggridge; and the habits of Nephila
and Hyptiotes, from Wilder. The observations of these authors have
been repeated as far as possible, and some changes and additions made
to their accounts of them. The numerous stories of deadly poison,
supernatural wisdom, and enormous size and strength of spiders, have
been omitted as doubtful. Several cuts from the papers of Professor
Wilder have been repeated by favor of the author and publishers. Most
of the figures are, however, new, and engraved by photography from my
own drawings.




CONTENTS.


                              CHAPTER I.
                                                                   PAGE
    Anatomy and Classification.—External Parts of a Spider.—Feet.
      —Palpi and Maxillæ.—Mandibles.—Breathing-Holes.—Epigynum.
      —Spinnerets.—Eyes.—Colors and Markings.—Internal Organs.—
      Intestine.—Heart.—Breathing-Organs.—Nervous System.—
      Poison Glands.—Families of Spiders                            11

                              CHAPTER II.

    Eating and Biting.—Structure of the Mandibles.—Mouth.—Eating
      Insects.—Biting.—Experiments on Poison of Spiders.
       —Tame Spiders                                                32

                             CHAPTER III.

    Spinning-Habits.—Spinnerets.—Spinning-Glands.—Beginning
      of a Thread.—Holes and Nests.—Burrows of Lycosa.—Trap-door
      Nests.—Tubes and Nests of Drassidæ.—Webs of Agalena.—Webs
      of Linyphia and Theridion.—Spiders living in Webs made by
      Others.—Round Webs.—Epeira Vulgaris.—Zilla.—Nephila.—
      Habits in the Web.—Curled Webs.—Cribellum and Calamistrum.
      —Webs of Amaurobius.—Regular Webs of Dictyna.—Triangle
      Web.—Round Webs with Curled Thread                            38

                              CHAPTER IV.

    Growth of Spiders.—Differences between Male and Female.—
      Differences between Old and Young.—Male and Female of Nephila
      and Argiope.—Heads of Male Erigone.—Palpal Organs.—Epigynum.
      —Use of Palpal Organs and Epigynum in Various Spiders.—Laying
      Eggs.—Cocoons of Drassus, Attus, and Epeira.—Cocoons of
      Argyrodes and Argiope.—Care of the Cocoon.—Parasites.—Growth
      in the Egg.—Hatching.—Habits of Young Spiders.—Moulting.
      —Habitats of Spiders.—Distribution of Spiders                86




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.


                                                            PAGE
     1. Under Side of Epeira Vulgaris                         13
     2. Foot of Epeira Vulgaris                               14
     3. Foot of Attus Mystaceus                               15
     4. Upper Side of Epeira Vulgaris                         18
     5. Section of Epeira Vulgaris                            20
     6. Mygale Hentzii                                        24
     7. Dysdera Interrita and Eyes                            26
     8. Drassus                                               26
     9. Agalena Nævia                                         27
    10. Lycosa and Eyes                                       28
    11. Salticus and Eyes                                     29
    12. Thomisus and Eyes                                     30
    13. Theridion                                             31
    14. Mandibles of Epeira Vulgaris. Front View              33
    15. Claw of Mandible                                      33
    16. Spinnerets of Epeira Vulgaris                         39
    17. Single Spinning Tube                                  40
    18. Spinning-Glands                                       40
    19. Spinneret of Prosthesima                              41
    20. Spinneret of Agalena with some of the hairs removed   41
    21. End of Thread                                         42
    22. Trap-door Nests. Copied from Moggridge                47
    23. Nest of Dolomedes                                     52
    24. Web of Agalena                                        55
    25. Web of Linyphia Marmorata                             57
    26. Web of Linyphia Communis                              59
    27. Pholcus swinging                                      61
    28. Round Web of Epeira Vulgaris                          62
    29. Web of Zilla                                          65
    30. Web of Nephila Plumipes. From Wilder                  66
    31. Part of Web of Nephila, to show the smooth threads.
          From Wilder                                         67
    32. Epeira Spinea                                         69
    33. Spinnerets of Amaurobius                              72
    34. Calamistrum of Amaurobius                             73
    35. Dictyna spinning Curled Web                           73
    36. Part of Web of Amaurobius                             74
    37. Part of Web of Dictyna, showing regular arrangement
          of threads                                          75
    38. Unfinished Web of Triangle Spider. From Wilder        76
    39. Finished Web of Triangle Spider, and Spider holding
          the Web. From Wilder                                78
    40. Young Lycosa flying                                   81
    41. Flying Spider with a Thread attached to the Ground    84
    42. Large Attus flying by a Brush of Threads              85
    43. Male and Female Nephila Plumipes. From Wilder,
          in Proceedings Boston Society Natural History       78
    44, 45. Heads of Males of Several Species of Erigone  88, 89
    46. Palpal Organ of Mygale                                89
    47. Palpal Organ of Epeira                                90
    48. Palpal Organ of Theridion                             91
    49. Epigynum of Epeira Riparia                            92
    50. Epigynum of Theridion                                 93
    51. Epigynum of Theridion                                 94
    52. Copulation of Lycosa                                  95
    53. Copulation of Linyphia                                96
    54. Copulation of Agalena                                 96
    55. Copulation of Epeira Riparia                          97
    56. Drassus laying Eggs                                   99
    57. Lycosa carrying Cocoon attached to her Spinnerets    100
    58. Attus Mystaceus laying Eggs                          101
    59. Epeira Strix making Cocoon                           101
    60. Epeira Strix laying Eggs                             102
    61. Cocoon of Argyrodes hanging by a Stem                103
    62. Cocoon of Epeira Riparia. From Wilder                103
    63. Eggs during Segmentation                             106
    64. Eggs further Advanced                                108
    65. Young Epeira Riparia after First Moult               109
    66. Moulting of Nephila Plumipes. From Wilder in
          Proceedings American Association                   111
    67. Nephila Plumipes just after Moulting. From Wilder    111




THE STRUCTURE AND HABITS OF SPIDERS.




CHAPTER I.

ANATOMY AND CLASSIFICATION.


The spiders form a small and distinct group of animals, related to the
scorpions, the daddy-long-legs, and the mites, and less closely to the
insects and crabs. They are distinguished by the more complete
separation of the body into two parts; by their two-jointed mandibles,
discharging a poisonous secretion at the tip; and by their
spinning-organs, and habits of making cobwebs and silk cocoons for their
eggs.

The common round-web spider, _Epeira vulgaris_ of Hentz, will serve as
well as any species to show the anatomy of spiders in general. Fig. 1
shows the under side of this spider; Fig. 4, the upper side; and Fig.
5, an imaginary section through the body, to show the arrangement of
the internal organs. To begin with Fig. 1: the body is seen to be
divided into two parts, connected only by the narrow joint, A, just
behind the last pair of legs. The front half of the body, called
the thorax, contains the stomach, the central part of the nervous
system, and the large muscles which work the legs and jaws. The hinder
half, the abdomen, contains the intestine, the breathing-organs, the
principal circulating-vessels, the organs of reproduction, and the
spinning-organs. Connected with the thorax are six pairs of limbs, four
pairs of legs, B B B B, a pair of palpi, C, and a pair of mandibles, D.

[Illustration: Fig. 1.]


LEGS.

The legs are used chiefly for running, jumping, and climbing; but the
front pair serve often as feelers, being held up before the body while
the spider walks steadily enough on the other six. One or both of the
hinder legs are used to guide the thread in spinning; the spider at
the same time walking or climbing about with the other six or seven.
The legs are seven-jointed; and on the terminal joint are three claws,
Fig. 2, A, B, C, and various hair and spines. In many spiders a brush
of hairs takes the place of the middle claw, as in the jumping spiders,
Fig. 3. Spiders with these brushes on their feet can walk up a steep
surface, or under a horizontal one, better than those who have three
claws. The legs of most spiders have among the hairs movable spines,
which, when the spider is running about, extend outward at a right
angle with the leg, and, when it is resting, are closed down against
the skin.

[Illustration: Fig. 2.]


PALPI.

In front of the legs are the palpi, Fig. 1, C, C,—a smaller pair of
limbs, with six joints and only one claw or none. They are used as
feelers, and for handling food, and, in the males, carry the curious
palpal organs, which will be described farther on. The basal joints,
Fig. 1, E, of the palpi are flattened out, and serve as chewing-organs,
called “maxillæ.”

[Illustration: Fig. 3.]

Mr. Mason has lately described, in the Transactions of the
Entomological Society of London, a large spider which has teeth on
the inside of the palpi, which, when the spider is angry, are rubbed
against teeth on the mandibles, producing a noise.


MANDIBLES.

The front pair of limbs, the mandibles, Fig. 1, D, are two-jointed. The
basal joint is usually short and stout, and furnished on the inner side
with teeth and hairs. The terminal joint is a small and sharp claw,
which can be closed against the basal joint when not in use.


ABDOMEN.

On the under side of the abdomen, just behind the last pair of
legs, are two hard, smooth patches, which cover the front pair of
breathing-organs, the openings to which are two little slits at Fig.
1, H. Between these is the opening of the reproductive organs, and, in
female spiders, the epigynum, Fig. 1, J,—an apparatus for holding the
reproductive cells of the male.

At the end of the body are the spinnerets, which will be described in
another chapter. There are three pairs of them; but many spiders close
them together when not in use, so as to cover up the middle pair. The
third pair of spinnerets are often several-jointed, and extend out
behind the body like two tails. In front of the spinnerets is a little
opening, Fig. 1, K, which leads to air-tubes that give off branches to
different parts of the abdomen. At M, Fig. 1, are usually two colored
bands, or rows of spots, marking the course of muscles attached to the
skin at various points along these lines.

Fig. 4 is the back of the same spider. The head is not separated from
the rest of the body, as in insects, but forms, with the thorax,
one piece. On the front of the head are eight eyes, Q, which are
differently arranged in different spiders. At the back part of the
thorax is a groove, P, under which is attached a muscle for moving the
sucking-stomach, Fig. 5, _d_. From this point radiate shallow grooves,
that follow the divisions between the muscles of the legs. On the
abdomen are several pairs of dark smooth spots, which mark the ends of
muscles extending downward through the abdomen. The markings of this
spider are very complicated. The spot on the middle of the front of the
abdomen is a very common one, and, in some spiders, extends the whole
length of the body. The waved lines on each side are also common, and,
in long-bodied spiders, often form two bright-colored stripes, or rows
of spots, running nearly straight the whole length of the abdomen.

[Illustration: Fig. 4.]


INTESTINE.

Fig. 5 is a section of the same spider. The mouth is at _a b_, just
under and behind the mandibles, and between the maxillæ. It has an
upper, _a_, and under lip, _b_, each lined with a horny plate, in
the middle of which runs a groove. When the lips are closed, the two
grooves form a tube, which leads to the œsophagus, _c_, and so into
the stomach. At the end of the œsophagus is the sucking-stomach. This
consists of a flattened tube, to the top of which is attached a muscle,
_d_, connected with the groove in the back; and to the bottom, muscles,
_f_, attached to a tough diaphragm spreading across the thorax, and
fastened between the legs on each side at _g g_. When these muscles
contract, the top and bottom of the sucking-stomach are drawn apart,
and whatever is in the œsophagus sucked in. By this pumping motion
the spider is supposed to take liquid food from the mouth, and drive
it backward into the abdomen. Just behind the sucking-stomach, the
intestine gives off two branches, _e e_, which extend forward around
the stomach muscle, and meet over the mouth. Each of these branches
gives off on the outer side four smaller branches, _m m m m_, which
extend downward,—one in front of each leg,—and unite on the under side
of the thorax.

[Illustration: Fig. 5.

 Section of a spider to show the arrangement of the internal organs:
  _a_, _b_, upper and under lips of the mouth;
  _c_, _c_, the œsophagus;
  _d_, _f_, upper and under muscles of the sucking-stomach;
  _e_, stomach; _g_, _g_, ligaments attached to diaphragm under the
                          stomach;
  _J_, lower nervous ganglion; _k_, upper ganglion;
  _l_, _l_, nerves to the legs and palpi; _m_, branches of the stomach;
  _n_, poison-gland; _o_, intestine; _p_, heart; _R_, air-sac;
  _S_, ovary; _t_, air-tube;
  _u_, spinning-glands. ]

The intestine, _o_, continues backward through the abdomen to the
anus, in the little knob behind the spinnerete. The brown mass which
surrounds the intestine, and fills the abdomen above it, is supposed to
be a secreting-organ discharging into the intestine at several points.


HEART.

Over the intestine, and parallel with it, is the heart, _p_, a muscular
tube, with openings along the sides to receive the blood, and branches
through which it flows to different parts of the body. The greater part
of the blood enters at the front of the heart, and passes backward into
the abdomen, or forward into the thorax.


BREATHING-ORGANS.

In the front of the abdomen are the principal breathing-organs,—a
pair of sacs, R, containing a number of thin plates, through which the
blood passes on its way to the heart. Besides these, there is a pair of
branching air-tubes, _t_, opening near the spinnerets.


NERVOUS SYSTEM.

The nervous system has a large ganglion, J, in the thorax, from which
branches, _i_, pass to the limbs and abdomen. At the front end two
branches extend upward, each side of the œsophagus, to two smaller
ganglia, _k_, from which pass nerves to the mandibles and eyes.

The reproductive organs, S, lie along the under side of the abdomen,
and open between the two air-sacs.

The spinning-glands, _u_, lie above the spinnerets, and along the under
side of the abdomen. They will be more fully described in the chapter
on spinning.


POISON-GLANDS.

The poison-glands, _n_, are partly in the basal joints of the
mandibles, and partly in the head, and discharge by a tube which opens
at the point of the claw of the mandible, Fig. 15, _a_.


CLASSIFICATION.

There is not room in this book to explain the classification of spiders
into genera and species; but a description of the following well-marked
groups, which contain nine-tenths of all spiders, will give a general
idea of the differences among them, and help to understand what follows.

[Illustration: Fig. 6.]


MYGALIDÆ

This family includes the largest known spiders. The body is usually
very hairy and dark-colored. Most species have only four spinnerets;
and one pair of these are long, and are turned up behind the abdomen.
They have four air-sacs under the front of the abdomen, instead of
two, as other spiders. Their mandibles are very large, and work up and
down, instead of sidewise. The eyes are collected together on the
front of the head. They live only in warm countries. Specimens from
South America are exhibited in every natural history museum. Fig. 6
represents _Mygale Hentzii_, a species living in Arizona and Texas.


DYSDERIDÆ.

A small family of spiders with only six eyes. They have also four
breathing-holes in the front of the abdomen; but one pair leads to
branched tubes instead of sacs. They are usually found under stones,
with their legs drawn up close to their bodies, but can move very
quickly when so inclined. Very few species are known, and none are
common, in North America. Fig. 7 is _Dysdera interrita_ enlarged. Below
are the eyes as seen from in front.


DRASSIDÆ.

A large family of spiders, varying greatly in shape, color, and habits.
Most of them are dull colored, and live under stones, or in silk tubes
on plants, and make no webs for catching insects. Their eyes are small,
and arranged in two rows on the front of the head. Their feet have two
claws and a bunch of flat hairs. The spinnerets are usually long enough
to extend a little behind the abdomen. Fig. 8 is a _Drassus_, and the
eyes as seen from in front.

[Illustration: Fig. 7.]

[Illustration: Fig. 8.]


AGALENIDÆ.

Long-legged, brown spiders, with two spinnerets longer than the
others, and extending out behind the body. They make flat webs, with
a funnel-shaped tube at one side, Fig. 24, in which the spider waits.
Fig. 9 is _Agalena nævia_, the common grass spider.

[Illustration: Fig. 9.]


CINIFLONIDÆ.

A family resembling the last, but having peculiar spinning-organs,
which will be described farther on, Fig. 35.


LYCOSIDÆ.

The running spiders. Very active spiders, living in open places, and
catching their prey without webs. Their legs are long, the hind pair
being the longest. The head is high, and the arrangement of the eyes
peculiar to the family, Fig. 10.

[Illustration: Fig. 10.]


ATTIDÆ.

The jumping spiders. The body is usually short, and the head square.
The arrangement of the eyes is characteristic, Fig. 11, _a_. The two
large ones in the middle give these spiders a more animated look than
those of other families. The legs are short, and the front pair often
stouter than the others. They can walk easily backwards or sidewise,
and jump a long distance. Fig. 11 is the common gray jumping spider
enlarged.

[Illustration: Fig. 11.]

[Illustration: Fig. 11 _a_.]


THOMISIDÆ.

The crab spiders. The body is usually flat, and wide behind. The front
two pair of legs are longer than the others, and so bent that the
spider can use them when in a narrow crack. Some of them, like crabs,
walk better sidewise than forwards. Like the running and jumping
spiders, they make no webs for catching food. The eyes are small, and
simply arranged in two rows, Fig. 12.

[Illustration: Fig. 12.]


THERIDIIDÆ.

The largest family of spiders. Most of them are small, with large
rounded abdomens and slender legs. They live usually upside down,
holding by their feet under their webs. They make large cobwebs of
different shapes for different species, and depend for food on what is
caught in them. To this group belongs the genus _Erigone_, containing a
great number of the smallest spiders known. Fig. 13 is the common house
_Theridion_ enlarged.

[Illustration: Fig. 13.]


EPEIRIDÆ.

The round-web spiders. Large spiders, with flat heads, and eyes wide
apart, and short, round abdomens, Figs. 1, 4. They make webs formed
of radiating lines crossed by other adhesive ones in a spiral or
concentric loops, Fig. 28. They hang in the web, head downward, or live
upside down in a hole near by.




CHAPTER II.

EATING AND BITING.


The spiders are best known and hated as animals that bite. The biting
apparatus is shown in Fig. 14, which represents the head and mandibles
of _Epeira vulgaris_, seen from in front. When not in use, the claw is
closed up against the mandible between the rows of teeth; but, when the
jaws are opened to bite, the claws are turned outward, so that their
points can be stuck into any thing between the jaws. Fig. 15 is the
claw still more enlarged, showing a little hole near the point at _a_,
out of which is discharged the secretion of a gland in the head, Fig.
5, _n_. The ordinary use of the mandibles is for killing and crushing
insects, so that the soft parts can be eaten by the spider; and in this
they are aided by the maxillæ, Fig. 1, E. They will sometimes chew an
insect for hours, until it becomes a round lump of skin, with all the
blood sucked out of it; this is then thrown away, the spider swallowing
only such bits as may happen to be sucked in with the liquid portion.

[Illustration: Fig. 14.]

[Illustration: Fig. 15.]

If let alone, no spiders bite any thing except insects useful for food;
but, when attacked and cornered, all species open their jaws, and
bite if they can; their ability to do so depending on their size, and
the strength of their jaws. Notwithstanding the number of stings and
pimples that are laid to spiders, undoubted cases of their biting the
human skin are very rare; and the stories of death, insanity, and
lameness from spider-bites, are probably all untrue.

Many experiments have been tried to test the effect of the bites
of spiders on animals. Doleschall shut up small birds with _Mygale
Javanica_ and _Mygale Sumatrensis_, both large and strong spiders; and
the birds died in a few seconds after being bitten. One of the spiders
was left for ten days without food, and then made to bite another bird,
which was injured, but in six hours recovered. The same author was
bitten in the finger by a jumping spider. The pain was severe for a few
minutes, and was followed by lameness of the finger, and gradually of
the hand and arm, which soon went away entirely.

Bertkau allowed spiders to bite his hand. On the ends of the fingers
the skin was too thick; but between the fingers they easily pricked
it. The bite swelled and smarted for a quarter of an hour, and then
itched for some time, and for a day after itched whenever rubbed, as
mosquito-bites will. He also experimented on flies, which died in a few
minutes after being bitten.

Mr. Blackwall, to test the poison of spiders, made several large ones
bite his hand and arm, and at the same time pricked himself with a
needle. Although the spiders bit deep enough to draw blood, the effect
of their bite was exactly like that of the prick of the needle. No
inflammation or pain followed, and both healed immediately.

Several spiders were placed together, and made to bite one another. The
bitten ones lived always some hours, and died from loss of blood; and
one spider, that had been bitten in the abdomen so that some of the
liver escaped and dried on the outside, lived over a year, apparently
in good health.

A large spider was made to bite a wasp near the base of the right
front-wing, so as to disable it; but it lived thirteen hours.

A bee was bitten by a large spider, but lived three days.

A grasshopper was bitten, and held in the jaws of a spider for several
seconds; but it lived in apparent health for two days.

Insects of the same kinds were wounded in the same places with needles,
and died in about the same time as when bitten.

From these experiments Mr. Blackwall was led to believe that the
secretion from the spider’s jaws is not poisonous, but that insects
die, when bitten, from loss of blood and mechanical injury.

Mr. Moggridge, who studied the habits of trap-door spiders for several
years, was more than once bitten by them, but never had any pain or
inflammation from the bites.

The bites of _Latrodectus guttatus_ of the south of Europe, and an
allied species in California, are much dreaded, but probably as much on
account of the size and conspicuous colors of the spider as any thing
else.

The Tarantula, also a south European spider, has been supposed to
cause epilepsy by its bites, which could only be relieved by music of
particular kinds. These stories appear, however, to be all nonsense: at
any rate, the Tarantula bites produce no such effect nowadays. These
spiders live in holes in sand, out of which they rush after passing
insects, and may be caught by a straw moved carefully over the holes
like an insect. They are no more savage in their habits than other
spiders; and Dufour kept one that soon learned to take flies from his
fingers without biting him.

Spiders of very different species soon learn to take food from the hand
or a pair of forceps, or water from a brush, and will come to the mouth
of their bottle, and reach after it on tiptoe.

Many stories are told of spiders coming out of their holes to listen to
music, and of their being taught to come out and take food at the sound
of an instrument.




CHAPTER III.

SPINNING HABITS.


That which, more than any thing else, distinguishes spiders from other
animals is the habit of spinning webs. Some of the mites spin irregular
threads on plants, or cocoons for their eggs; and many insects spin
cocoons in which to pass through the change from larva to adult. In the
spiders the spinning-organs are much more complicated, and used for a
greater variety of purposes,—for making egg-cocoons, silk linings to
their nests, and nets for catching insects. The spider’s thread differs
from that of insects, in being made up of a great number of finer
threads laid together while soft enough to unite into one.


SPINNERETS.

[Illustration: Fig. 16.]

The external spinning-organs are little two-jointed tubes on the ends
of the spinnerets, Fig. 1, L. Fig. 16 is the spinnerets of the same
spider, still more enlarged to show the arrangement of the tubes. There
is a large number of little tubes on each spinneret, and in certain
places a few larger ones. Fig. 17 is a single tube, showing the ducta
which leads the viscid liquid to form the thread from a gland in the
spider’s abdomen. Each tube is the outlet of a separate gland. Fig. 18,
_a_, shows four small tubes from a spinneret of _Epeira_, each with a
small gland attached; and Fig. 18, _b_, a large tube, with one of the
large glands which extends forward the whole length of the abdomen,
Fig. 5, _u_.

[Illustration: Fig. 17.]

[Illustration: Fig. 18.]

The shape of the spinnerets, and size and arrangement of the tubes,
vary in different species. Fig. 19 is a spinneret of _Prosthesima_,
where there are a few large tubes in place of many small ones. In
_Agalena_ the two hinder spinnerets are long, and have spinning-tubes
along the under side of the last joint, Fig. 20.

When the spider begins a thread, it presses the spinnerets against
some object, and forces out enough of the secretion from each tube to
adhere to it. Then it moves the spinnerets away; and the viscid liquid
is drawn out, and hardens at once into threads,—one from each tube.
If the spinnerets are kept apart, a band of threads is formed; but,
if they are closed together, the fine threads unite into one or more
larger ones. If a spider is allowed to attach its thread to glass, the
end can be seen spread out over a surface as large as the ends of the
spinnerets, covered with very fine threads pointing toward the middle,
where they unite, Fig. 21.

[Illustration: Fig. 19.]

[Illustration: Fig. 20.]

The spinning is commonly helped by the hinder feet, which guide the
thread, and keep it clear of surrounding objects, and even pull it from
the spinnerets. This is well seen when an insect has been caught in a
web, and the spider is trying to tie it up with threads. She goes as
near as she safely can, and draws out a band of fine threads, which she
reaches out toward the insect with one of her hind-feet; so that it may
strike the threads as it kicks, and become entangled with them. As soon
as the insect is tied tightly enough to be handled, the spider holds
and turns it over and over with her third pair of feet, while, with the
fourth pair, she draws out, hand over hand, the band of fine threads
which adhere to the insect as it turns, and soon cover it entirely.

[Illustration: Fig. 21.]

It is a common habit with spiders to draw out a thread behind as they
walk along; and in this way they make the great quantities of threads
that sometimes cover a field of grass, or the side of a house. We often
see the points of all the pickets of a fence connected by threads spun
in this way by spiders running down one picket, and up the next, for no
apparent purpose.

Spiders often descend by letting out the thread to which they hang; and
are able to control their speed, and to stop the flow of thread, at
will. They sometimes hang down by a thread, and allow themselves to be
swung by the wind to a considerable distance, letting out the thread
when they feel they are going in the right direction.

Spiders in confinement begin at once to spin, and never seem
comfortable till they can go all over their box without stepping off
their web. The running spiders, that make no other webs, when about to
lay their eggs, find or dig out holes in sheltered places, and line
them with silk. Species that live under stones or on plants all line
their customary hiding-places with web, to which they hold when at
rest. Several of the large running spiders dig holes in sand, and line
them with web, so that the sand cannot fall in; and build around the
mouth a ring of sticks and straws held together by threads.


TRAP-DOOR NESTS.

The building of tubular nests is carried to the greatest perfection by
certain genera of the _Mygalidæ_. (See page 13.)

_Atypus_, the most northern genus of this family, makes a strong silken
tube, part of which forms the lining of a hole in the ground, and part
lies above the surface, among stones and plants, Fig. 22, A. The mouth
of the tube is almost always closed, at least when the spider is full
grown.

Another genus, which lives in warm countries, makes tubes lined with
silk, and closed at the top by a trap-door. A common species, _Cteniza
Californica_, lives in the southern part of California, and is often
brought east by travellers. It digs its hole in a fine soil, that
becomes, when dry, nearly as hard as a brick; but the spider probably
works when the ground is wet. The holes are sometimes nearly an inch
in diameter, and vary in depth from two or three inches to a foot.
The mouth is a little enlarged, and closed by a thick cover that fits
tightly into it, like a cork into a bottle. The cover is made of dirt
fastened together with threads, and is lined, like the tube, with silk,
and fastened by a thick hinge of silk at one side, Fig. 22, B. When the
cover is closed, it looks exactly like the ground around it. The spider
holds on the inside of the door with the mandibles and the two front
pairs of feet; while the third and fourth pairs of legs are pressed out
against the walls of the tube, and hold the spider down so firmly, that
it is impossible to raise the cover without tearing it.

Among the trap-door spiders of Southern Europe, about which Mr. J. T.
Moggridge has written a very interesting book, are species which make
different kinds of nests. The cover, instead of being thick, and wedged
into the top of the tube like a stopper, is thin, and rests on the top
of the hole, Fig. 22, C, and is covered with leaves, moss, or whatever
happens to be lying about; so that it is not easily seen. Two or three
inches down the tube is another door, Fig. 22, E, hanging to one side
of the tube when not in use; but, when one tries to dig the spider out
from above, she pushes up the lower door, so that it looks as if it
were the bottom of an empty tube.

Another species digs a branch obliquely upward from the middle of the
tube, closed at the junction by a hanging-door, which, when pushed
upward, can also be used to close the main tube, Fig. 22, F. What
use the spider makes of such a complicated nest, nobody knows from
observation; but Mr. Moggridge supposes that when an enemy, a parasitic
fly, for instance, comes into the mouth of the tube, the spider stops
up the passage by pressing up against the lower door; but, if this is
not enough, it dodges into the branch, draws the door to behind it, and
leaves the intruder to amuse himself in the empty tube. The branch is
sometimes carried up to the surface, where it is closed only by a few
threads; so that, in case of siege, the spider could escape, and leave
the whole nest to the enemy.

[Illustration: Fig. 22.

Trap-door nests: A, nest of Atypus; B, nest with thick door;
C, nest with thin door; D, branched nest; E, nest with two doors;
F, branched nest with two doors; G, nest with two branches.]

In these nests the spiders live most of the time, coming out at night,
and some species in the daytime, to catch insects, which they carry
into the tube, and eat. The eggs are laid in the tube; and the young
are hatched, and live there till able to go alone, when they go out,
and dig little holes of their own. As the spider gets larger, the hole
is made wider, and the cover enlarged by adding a layer of earth and
silk; so that an old cover is made up of a number of layers, one over
the other, over the original little cover.

Moggridge once took a _Cteniza Californica_ out of her nest, and put
her on a pot of earth, and the next morning had the good luck to see
her at work digging. She loosened the earth with her mandibles, and
took it in little lumps with the mandibles and maxillæ, and carried it
away piece by piece. It took her an hour to dig a hollow as large as
half a walnut. He saw the making of the door twice by other species.
Once he dug a hole for a spider in some earth, and the next day found
her in it, and the top covered by a little web, on which were scattered
bits of earth and leaves, which had evidently been put there by the
spider. The second night, enough dirt and silk were added to make the
door of the usual thickness; but the spider never finished it so that
it would open properly on its hinge. Another time Moggridge saw at the
mouth of a very small hole a spider at work making a door. She spun
a few threads across the hole, then gathered up with her front-legs
and palpi an armful of dirt, and laid it on top of them. She then got
under the pile, into the tube; but the motions of the dirt showed that
she was still at work on it, and next morning the under side had been
thickly covered with web, and the whole separated from the mouth of
the tube, except at one side, where the usual hinge was left. The new
door was at first soft, but in two or three days hardened, and appeared
exactly like an old door.

These spiders are accustomed to put on the door moss like that which
grows around it, and so conceal the door from sight; but when Mr.
Moggridge took away the moss, and dug up the ground around a hole, and
then destroyed the cover, the spider made a new one, and brought moss
from a distance to put on it, thereby making it the most conspicuous
thing in the neighborhood.

Mr. S. S. Saunders tried to see trap-door spiders make their nests.
When the earth was dry, they would do nothing; but, after watering it,
they several times dug new holes, but always in the night.

The food of the European trap-door spiders consists largely of ants and
other wingless insects, and they have been known to eat earthworms and
caterpillars. Mr. Moggridge has often seen them, even in the daytime,
open their doors a little, and snatch at passing insects, sometimes
taking hold of one too large to draw into the tube. One time he and
some friends marked some holes, and went and watched them in the night.
The doors were slightly open, and some of the spiders’ legs thrust out
over the rim of the hole. He held a beetle near one of the spiders; and
she reached the front part of her body out of the tube, pushing the
door wide open, seized the beetle, and backed quickly into the tube
again, the door closing by its own weight. Shortly after, she opened it
again, and put the beetle out alive and unhurt, probably because it was
too hard to eat. He next drove a sow-bug near another hole; and the
spider came out and snatched it in the same way, and kept it. None of
the spiders came entirely out of their holes, and they were only a
little more active than in the daytime.

Erber, in the Island of Tinos, noticed a place where several trap-door
nests were near each other, and spent a moonlight night watching them.
Soon after nine o’clock some of the spiders came out, fastened back
their doors, and each spun a web, about six inches long and an inch
high, among the grass near her hole, and went back into the tube.
In course of time beetles were caught in the webs, and eaten by the
spiders, and the hard parts carried several feet from the nest. The
next morning the webs had been cleared away, and the doors of the tubes
closed, leaving no traces of the night’s work.


SILK TUBES AND NESTS.

Several species of _Theridion_ and _Epeira_ make tents near their
webs, under which they hang when at rest, and in which some species
make their cocoons, and lay their eggs. The tents are usually covered
outside with leaves drawn together, with sticks or bud-scales collected
near by, or with earth and stones brought up from the ground below.

Some spiders living on plants make flat tubes, in which they wait for
insects, and also hide while moulting, or laying eggs. Others make,
especially about the breeding-time, bags of silk on plants, or under
stones, in which the egg-cocoons are finally spun.

[Illustration: Fig. 23.]

_Dolomedes_ makes among grass and shrubs, in meadows, a great nest,
four or five inches in diameter, Fig. 23, in which is the egg-cocoon.
The young hatch and ramble about in this nest for some time. The spider
remains near, usually holding on under the nest.


THE WATER-SPIDER.

There is one spider that makes a bag of silk, something like those
just mentioned, on water-plants, and lives in it under water, as in a
diving-bell; the opening being below, so that the air cannot escape.
Mr. Bell, in “The Journal of the Linnæan Society,” vol. i., 1857,
describes the filling of these nests with air by the spider. After the
nest had been made as large as half an acorn, she went to the surface,
and returned, fourteen times successively, and each time brought down a
bubble of air, which she let escape into the nest. The bubble was held
by the spinnerets and two hind-feet, which were crossed over them; and
the method of catching it was the following: The spider climbed up on
threads or plants nearly to the surface, and put the end of the abdomen
out of water for an instant, and then jerked it under, at the same time
crossing the hind-legs quickly over it. She then walked down the plants
to her nest, opened her hind-feet, and let the bubble go.

The water-spiders run about on water-plants, and catch the insects
which live among them. They lay their eggs in the nest; and the young
come out, and spin little nests of their own, as soon as they are big
enough. Their hairs keep the skin from becoming wet as they go through
the water; and in the nest they are as dry as if it were under a stone,
or in a hole on land.


COBWEBS.

The simple nests and tubes that have been described are made by
spiders, most of which spin no other webs. The larger and better known
cobwebs for catching insects are made by comparatively few species. On
damp mornings in summer the grass-fields are seen to be half covered
with flat webs, from an inch or two to a foot in diameter, which are
considered by the weatherwise as signs of a fair day. These webs remain
on the grass all the time, but only become visible from a distance when
the dew settles on them. Fig. 24 is a diagram of one of these nests,
supposed, for convenience, to be spun between pegs instead of grass.
The flat part consists of strong threads from peg to peg, crossed by
finer ones, which the spider spins with the long hind-spinnerets, Fig.
20, swinging them from side to side, and laying down a band of threads
at each stroke. The web is so close and tight, that one can hear the
footsteps of the spider as she runs about on it. At one side of the web
is a tube leading down among the grass-stems. At the top the spider
usually stands, just out of sight, and waits for something to light on
the web, when she runs out, and snatches it, and carries it into the
tube to eat. If any thing too large walks through the web, she turns
around, and retreats out of the lower end of the tube, and can seldom
be found afterward. In favorable places these webs remain through the
whole season, and are enlarged, as the spider grows, by additions on
the outer edges, and are supported by threads running up into the
neighboring plants. Similar webs are made by several house-spiders, and
are enlarged, if let alone, till they are a foot or two feet wide, and
remain till they collect dirt enough to tear them down by its weight.

[Illustration: Fig. 24.]

Nearly all spiders that make cobwebs live under them, back downward;
and many are so formed, that they can hardly walk right side up. The
spiders of the genus _Linyphia_ make a flat or curved sheet of web,
supported by threads above and below; the spider standing, usually,
underneath in some corner, out of sight. _Linyphia Marmorata_ makes a
dome-shaped web, Fig. 25, supported by threads that extend up into the
bushes two or three feet. The spider stands under the middle of the
dome, where it draws in a small circle of web with its feet. The upper
threads of the web interfere with the wings of small insects flying
between them, and they fall down to the dome below, where they are
seized, and pulled through the nearest hole. _Linyphia communis_ makes
a double web, Fig. 26. The spider stands under the upper sheet, which
curves a little downward. What the use of the lower web is, is not
easily seen. Either of these spiders, when frightened, leaps out of the
web to the ground; but _Linyphia communis_ must go to the edge before
she can clear herself, and so is easily caught in her own web.

[Illustration: Fig. 25.]

[Illustration: Fig. 26.]

A little spider, _Argyrodes_, belonging to the same family, lives among
the upper threads of webs of this kind, without being troubled by the
owner. It resembles in size and color the scales of pine-buds that
often fall in the web, and may easily be mistaken for them. It probably
spins a few threads of its own among the borrowed ones, and does, at
times, make a separate web of its own.

The webs of _Theridion_ usually have at some part a tent, or at least
a thicker portion, under which the spider stands; and from this run
irregularly simple threads, crossing each other in all directions, and
held in place by threads above and below. Such irregular webs are made
often in houses by _Theridion vulgare_, Hentz, in corners of rooms,
under furniture, and in cellar-stairways. The same spider spins
occasionally out of doors on fences, but never on plants. When it
has caught an insect, and tied it up, it hoists it up into the web,
sometimes a considerable distance.

They do this by fastening to it threads from above, which, as they dry,
contract, and pull it up a little. They keep on bringing down more and
more threads, until the insect is at last hoisted to the top of the
web, where they can suck it without exposing themselves.

_Pholcus_, the long-legged cellar-spider, makes an irregular web of
this kind, and has a curious habit when alarmed. It hangs down by its
long legs, Fig. 27, and swings its body around in a circle, so fast
that it can hardly be seen. Fig. 27, _a_, represents the spider as seen
from below; and the dotted circle shows the path in which it revolves.


ROUND WEBS.

These well-known cobwebs are made by the family _Epeiridæ_, Figs. 1, 4;
and the process of making them by the common spider, from which these
figures are drawn, can be easily observed in any garden. They generally
choose for their web a window-frame or fence, or some such open wooden
structure, where there is a hole or crack in which they can hide in the
daytime.

[Illustration: Fig. 27.]

[Illustration: Fig. 28.]

The spider begins by spinning a line across where the web is to be, and
attaches another to it near the middle. She carries the last line along,
holding it off with one of the hind-feet, and makes it fast an inch
or two from one end of the first; then she goes back to the centre,
attaches another line, which she carries off in another direction,
and fastens; and so on, until all the rays of the web, Fig. 28, are
finished. She stops occasionally at the centre, turns around, and
pulls at the threads one after another, and spins here and there short
cross-lines to hold them more firmly. She seems, by thus feeling the
rays, to decide where to put in the next one, and does it always in
such a way as to keep tight what has been done before. When the rays
are finished to her satisfaction, the spider begins at the centre to
spin a spiral line across them, Fig. 28, _a_, _a_, _a_; the turns of
the spiral being as far apart as the spider can conveniently reach. She
climbs across from one ray to the next, holding her thread carefully
off with one of the hind-feet, till she gets to the right point, and
then turns up her abdomen, and touches the ray with her spinnerets,
thus fastening the cross-thread to it. The figure shows her in this
position. When this spiral has been carried to the outside of the web,
the spider begins there another and closer one, Fig. 28, of thread of
a different kind. While the first thread was smooth, the latter is
covered with a sticky liquid, which soon collects on it in drops, and
makes it adhere to any thing that touches it. After going round a few
times, this spiral crosses the one that was spun first, or would, if
the spider allowed it to; but, as she comes to the old spiral, she
bites it away, leaving only little rags, Fig. 22, _b_, attached to
the rays, which may be seen in the finished web. By beginning thus at
the outside, the spider is able to cover the whole web with adhesive
threads, and, without stepping on it, take her usual place in the
centre. She usually is careful enough to spin beforehand a thread from
the centre to her nest, and sometimes stays there, with one foot on the
thread, so as to feel if any thing is caught in the web. When she feels
a shake, she runs down to the centre, feels the rays to see where the
insect is, and runs out, and seizes it, or ties it up as described on
page 43. We have described the web as consisting of one regular spiral;
but this is seldom the case. It is usually wider on one side than the
other, or below than above, as in Fig. 28, where outside the spirals
are several loops going partly round the web. The web of Zilla consists
entirely of such loops going three-quarters round the web, and
returning, leaving a segment without any cross-threads, in which is
the line from the centre to the spider’s nest, Fig. 29. The spider is
shown carrying a fly to its nest attached to the spinnerets; and, if
this is its usual habit, the web with an open segment is certainly more
convenient than a complete one.

[Illustration: Fig. 29.]

The web of _Nephila plumipes_, described by Wilder, consists also of
loops running round about quarter of a circle, Fig. 30; and in this
web the smooth cross-lines which are first spun are not removed, but
remain after it is finished. Fig. 31 shows part of one side of a web;
the arrows marking the smooth thread, and the direction in which it was
spun.

[Illustration: Fig. 30.]

_Argiope_, the large black and yellow autumn spiders, cross the middle
of the web with a zig-zag band of white silk, which, as the web is
obliquely hung, partly conceals the spider under it. These spiders also
spin each side of the web, and two or three inches from it, a screen of
irregular threads of unknown use.

[Illustration: Fig. 31.]

The round-web spiders are said to repair their webs by tearing out a
dirty, tangled piece, and putting a new one in its place. Wilder says
that _Nephila plumipes_ tears off and replaces half the web at one
time. _Epeira vulgaris_ often takes away an old web, and puts a new one
in the same place, tearing down the old in pieces, and putting in the
rays of the new as it goes along. The spider walks on the nearest sound
thread, and gathers in with her front-feet as much old web as she can
tear off, and rolls it up with her palpi and mandibles into a ball,
and, when it is tight enough not to stick to the web, drops it. As she
walks along, gathering up the old web in front, she at the same time
spins a new thread behind, and, when she gets to a suitable place,
makes it fast as one of the rays of the new web. The common story has
it, that the spider eats the old web. She certainly gathers it up in
her mouth, and sometimes throws it away at once, but at other times
sits and chews it a long time, with apparent pleasure.

Most of the _Epeiridæ_ are brightly colored, and make no attempt at
concealment when in the web. Others have odd shapes and colors, and
hang in the web in such positions that they look like any thing but
animals. Some species draw up their legs against their triangular
abdomens, and look like bits of bark fallen into the web. Others are
long and slender, and when at rest, either in the web or out, lay their
legs close together before and behind their bodies, so as to look like
straws. Others have oddly shaped abdomens, as Fig. 32, under which the
rest of the body is partly concealed.

[Illustration: Fig. 32.]

_Epeira caudata_, a common gray spider, living in the wood, collects
pieces of insects and other rubbish, and arranges it in a line up and
down, across the centre of the web. The spider stands in the centre,
and from a short distance can hardly be distinguished from the rubbish.
She also hides her cocoons in the web, in the same line of dirt.

The size of the web is usually proportioned to that of the spider; but
_Epeira displicata_, which is quarter of an inch long, makes a web only
two or three inches in diameter, on the ends of branches of bushes,
where it is shaken about, and sometimes blown to pieces, by the wind.

As the spider stands in her web, and feels a slight shake, such as
would be caused by a sudden wind, she draws her legs together, pulling
the rays tighter, and so making the whole web steady. If, however, the
spider is frightened, and has no time to escape, she throws her body
back and forth as a man does in a swing, and thus shakes the web so
rapidly, that the spider can hardly be seen. The most usual habit, when
alarmed, is to drop to the ground, and lie there as if dead.


USE OF SPIDER’S SILK.

Various attempts have been made to use the silk of spiders, and chiefly
that of the large round-web spiders, for practical purposes, either by
carding the cocoons, or by drawing the thread directly from the spider.
The latest experiments and plans for this purpose are those of
Professor Wilder in “The Galaxy,” vol. viii. He shows how _Nephila
plumipes_ might be raised in large numbers, each spider kept by herself
in a wire ring surrounded by water, fed with flies bred for the purpose
from old meat, and milked every day of their thread. Each cocoon of
this spider contains from five hundred to a thousand eggs. The young
live together for two or three weeks, spin a web in common, and eat
one another, or any small insects that come in their way. Then they
begin to scatter, and each builds her own web; so that from this time
they must be kept separate, or they would eat one another. Every day or
two, each spider should be taken down, put into a pair of stocks, and
the thread pulled out till it stops coming. In this way Wilder thinks
an ounce of thread could be got from each spider during the summer.
The thread is from a seven-thousandth to a four-thousandth of an inch
thick, and much smoother and more brightly colored, as well as finer,
than that of the silk-worm. Several threads would have to be twisted
together to get one of manageable size. The principal difficulties are
the space needed for keeping each spider by herself, and the amount of
labor needed to provide them with living insects for food, and to draw
out the silk, which would make it too expensive to use.


CURLED WEBS.

There is a family of spiders called by Blackwall _Ciniflonidæ_, see
p. 17, which, besides the usual plain thread, make a peculiar kind of
their own. They have in front of the spinnerets, Fig. 33, an additional
spinning-organ called the cribellum, _a_, _a_. It is covered with fine
tubes, much finer than those of the spinnerets, set close together.

[Illustration: Fig. 33.]

They also have on the last joint but one of the hind-legs a comb of
stiff hairs, called the calamistrum, Fig. 34, on the upper side.

[Illustration: Fig. 34.]

[Illustration: Fig. 35.]

When they spin their peculiar web, they turn one of the hind-legs
across under the spinnerets, so that the calamistrum is just under
the cribellum, and the foot rests on the opposite leg, Fig. 35.
The hind-legs are then moved rapidly back and forth; so that the
calamistrum combs out from the spinning-tubes, and at the same time
tangles a band of fine threads, C. This band is laid along, and
attached here and there to a plain thread, A, B, so as to make it
adhere more readily to an insect that happens to touch it. As one leg
gets tired, they change, and work with the other. In the webs of these
spiders this adhesive band can be seen with the naked eye, running
about, as in Fig. 36. The webs are usually irregular, and shaped to
fit the place where they are built, but have, in some part, a tube
somewhat like that of the grass spider, Fig. 24, where the owner hides.
Sometimes they are more or less regular in structure, some of the
threads being parallel, and crossed by shorter ones at regular
intervals, Fig. 37. Others are circular, with a tube in the centre
which runs into a crack, and from which radiate irregularly the
principal threads of the web. Such webs are sometimes very numerous
on stone buildings, and, as they collect large quantities of dust,
seriously disfigure them. The webs alone, when clean, would not be
noticed.

[Illustration: Fig. 36.]

[Illustration: Fig. 37.]


THE TRIANGLE SPIDER.

Among those spiders that use the calamistrum is one which makes a
web unlike any other. It has been described by Professor Wilder, in
the “Popular Science Monthly” for April, 1875, under the name of the
“triangle spider.” It lives usually among the dead branches around the
lower part of pine and spruce trees, and is colored so like the bark,
that when it stands, as it usually does, on the end of a branch, it
is easily mistaken for a part of it. The web seems to be made in the
night. Wilder saw them early in the morning; and I, in the evening,
between sunset and dark. A single thread five or six inches long runs
from the spider’s roost; and from its extremity radiate four branches,
attached to various twigs in the neighborhood, Fig. 38, AE, AF, AG, AH.

[Illustration: Fig. 38.]

The spider begins to cross them with adhesive threads near the end
of the upper ray at S′. After fastening the end of the thread, she
walks along toward the centre, scratching away all the time with her
calamistrum, till she comes to a place, 5, where she can cross to the
next ray. She crosses over, and goes outward toward S″, the thread
shrinking as she goes, until, when she arrives at S″, it is just long
enough to reach across to S′. She fastens it by laying it along the ray
for a short distance, and goes inward again till she reaches 7, where
she crosses to the next ray; and so on till the thread is finished to
S‴′. Here she stops spinning, and goes up the lower ray to A, and along
the upper one to 4, where she starts another cross-thread. This goes on
till the whole web is filled, as in Fig. 39, nearly to the centre.

When the web is finished, the spider goes up the thread A _o_, to
within an inch or so of the twig to which it is fastened; turns round,
and takes hold of the thread with her front-feet; then pulls herself
backward with her hind-feet up to the twig. She thus tightens the web,
and draws up a loop of thread between her front and hind feet, Fig. 39,
lower figure.

[Illustration: Fig. 39.]

The net is now set for use, and she stands holding it till something
touches it; then she lets go with her hind-legs, and the net springs
forward, bringing more threads into contact with the insect, and
sliding the spider along the line toward A. If she thinks it worth
while, she draws up another loop, and snaps the web again. When she is
satisfied that the insect is caught, she gathers up part of the web
till she comes to him, covers him with silk, and carries him up to her
roost.

There are other spiders of this group that make round webs, just like
those of the _Epeiridæ_, Fig. 28, except in the adhesive threads being
spun with the calamistrum.


FLYING SPIDERS.

Often, in summer, the bushes are covered with threads, attached by one
end, blowing out in the wind; and bits of cobweb are blowing about,
with occasionally a spider attached. To account for such threads,
curious theories have been thought of; among others, that spiders are
able to force the thread from their spinnerets, like water from a
syringe, in any direction they choose.

If a spider be put on a stick surrounded by water, she manages, in
course of time, to get a thread to some object beyond, and to escape by
it. To find out how this is done, Mr. Blackwall tried some experiments.
He put spiders on sticks in vessels of water, and they ran up and down,
unable to escape as long as the air in the room was still. But, if
a draught of air passed the spider, she turned her head toward it,
and opened her spinnerets in the opposite direction. If the draught
continued, a thread was drawn out by it, which at length caught upon
something, when the spider drew it tight, and escaped on it. If the air
was kept still, or the spider covered with a glass, she remained on the
stick till taken off.

These experiments have been repeated, and show that the spider does not
shoot or throw the web in any way, but takes advantage of currents of
air, and allows threads to be blown out to a considerable distance.

There is a still more curious use of this method of spinning threads;
that is, in flying. Small spiders, especially on fine days in the
autumn, get up on the tops of bushes and fences, each apparently
anxious to get as high as possible, and there raise themselves up on
tiptoe, and turn their bodies up, as in Fig. 40, with their heads
toward the wind, and spinnerets open. A thread soon blows out from the
spinnerets, and, if the current of air continues, spins out to a length
of two or three yards, and then offers enough resistance to the wind
to carry the spider away with it up into the air. As soon as she is
clear, the spider turns around, and grasps the thread with her feet,
and seems to be very comfortable and contented till she strikes against
something. Sometimes they rise rapidly, and are soon out of sight; at
other times blow along just above the ground.

[Illustration: Fig. 40.]

This habit is not confined to any particular kinds of spiders, but is
practised by many small species of _Erigone_, and by the young of many
spiders of all families, that, when adult, would be too large for it.
The majority of the spiders flying in autumn are the young of several
species of _Lycosa_, that seem to spend the greater part of October and
November trying to get as far above ground as possible. The best places
to watch them are garden-fences in cities, where they often swarm, and
can be more distinctly seen than on bushes. Large numbers can always
be seen, for example, on the fences around the Common in Boston, every
fine day in autumn, until there has been a long period of cold weather.
Other species fly in the early part of summer.

Mr. Blackwall observed in Manchester, Eng., Oct. 1, 1826, a calm sunny
day, that, just before noon, the fields and hedges were covered over
with cobwebs. So thick were they, that, in crossing a small pasture,
his feet were covered with them. They had evidently been made in a very
short time, as early in the morning they were not conspicuous enough
to attract his attention, and the day before could not have existed at
all, as a high wind blew all day. At the same time large rags of web
were floating about in the air, one measuring five feet long, and
several inches wide. These appeared to be not formed in the air, but
torn from grass and bushes, where they were produced by the tangling of
many threads which had been spun separately. They kept rising all the
forenoon, and in the afternoon came down again. Not one in twenty had
a spider on it. Similar large webs were observed by Lincecum in Texas,
and supposed by him to be balloons spun purposely by the spiders.

Mr. Darwin, in the journal of the voyage of “The Beagle,” says, that
when anchored in the River Plata, sixty miles from shore, he has seen
the rigging covered with cobwebs, and the air full of pieces of web
floating about. The spiders, however, when they struck the ship, were
always hanging from single threads, and never to the floating webs.

A recent account of the signs of weather-changes near the southern
coast of the United States mentions as one of them cobwebs in the
rigging.

It is still unexplained how the thread starts from the spinnerets. It
has been often asserted that the spider fastens the thread by the end,
and allows a loop to blow out in the wind; but, in most cases, this is
certainly not done, only one thread being visible. Sometimes, while
a thread is blown from the hinder spinnerets, another from the front
spinnerets is kept fast to the ground, Fig. 41; so that, when the
spider blows away, it draws out a thread behind it entirely independent
of the one from which it hangs.

[Illustration: Fig. 41.]

Sometimes, instead of a single thread, several are blown out at once,
like a long brush, as in Fig. 42, which represents, four times
enlarged, an unusually large spider just before blowing off a fence.

[Illustration: Fig. 42.]




CHAPTER IV.

GROWTH OF SPIDERS.


Persons unfamiliar with spiders find it hard to tell young from old,
and male from female. This is caused, in part, by the great differences
between different ages and sexes of the same spider, on account of
which they are supposed to belong to distinct species.

The adult males and females are easily distinguished from each other,
and from the young, by the complete development of organs peculiar to
each sex, which will be described further on.

The males are usually smaller than the females, and have, in proportion
to their size, smaller abdomens and longer legs. They are usually
darker colored, especially on the head and front part of the body; and
markings which are distinct in the female run together and become
darker in the male. In most species these differences are not great;
but in some no one would ever suppose, without other evidence, that the
males and females had any relationship to each other. The most extreme
cases of this kind are _Argiope_ and _Nephila_, where the male is about
a tenth as large as the female. Fig. 43 represents male and female of
_Nephila plumipes_ described by Wilder.

[Illustration: Fig. 43.]

[Illustration: Fig. 44.]

[Illustration: Fig. 45.]

The female of one of the common crab spiders is white as milk, with a
crimson stripe on each side of the abdomen; while the male is a little
brown-and-yellow spider, with dark markings of a pattern common in the
family to which it belongs.

In the genus _Erigone_, which includes the smallest known spiders, the
males often have curious humps and horns on their heads, Fig. 44. The
most extreme example is Fig. 45, where the eyes are carried up on the
end of the horn. The females of all these species have plain round
heads; and what use the humps are to the males nobody knows.

The peculiar organs by which the adult males and females can always be
distinguished are, in the males, the palpal organs, on the ends of the
palpi; and, in the females, the epigynum, Fig. 1.


PALPAL ORGANS.

As the male spider gets nearly full grown, the terminal joints of the
palpi become swollen, and, after the last moult, the palpal organs are
uncovered.

[Illustration: Fig. 46.]

The simplest form of palpal organ is found in the large _Mygalidæ_,
Fig. 6. It consists of a hard bulb, Fig. 46, drawn out to a point, in
which is a small hole leading to a sac within.

[Illustration: Fig. 47.]

In most spiders the terminal joint is flattened, and has a hollow on
the under side, in which the palpal organ is partly concealed. The bulb
is flattened to fit this hollow; and the point of it is prolonged into
a distinct tube of various shapes, furnished with numerous spines and
appendages. Fig. 47 is the palpal organ of _Epeira vulgaris_ flattened
out, and made transparent. The internal sac is shown at _a_; and the
tube from it _b_ runs round the inside of the bulb, and ends at the
opening _c_. The outside of the organ has various horns and appendages.
Fig. 48 is the palpus of another spider, where the outer tube is so
long, that it is coiled up over the basal part of the bulb; and the end
rests on a strong spine at one side of the palpus.

[Illustration: Fig. 48.]

Not only the terminal joints of the palpi, but also the next, and
sometimes next two joints, are modified in shape, with the development
of the palpal organ, Fig. 48. The shape of these organs is very
constant in the same species of spider, and thus becomes one of the
most convenient marks of such a group.


THE EPIGYNUM.

When the female spider is nearly full grown, there appears a hard,
swollen place just in front of the opening of the ovaries, Fig. 1; and,
after the last moult, the epigynum is uncovered at this place. The
epigynum, Fig. 49, consists of two spermathecæ, E, which connect by two
little tubes, H, H, with the oviduct near its mouth, and by two larger
tubes, D, with the outside of the spider. The mouths of these larger
tubes are often surrounded by various hard appendages to support
and guide the palpal organs when the latter are thrust into them.
These parts, like the palpal organs, furnish convenient marks for
distinguishing species. The spermathecæ, E, vary but little in shape
in different spiders; but the tubes H and D are often lengthened,
and twisted into shapes nearly as complicated as those of the palpal
organs. Fig. 50 is the epigynum of a small _Theridion_, where the
arrangement of parts can be very distinctly seen. E, E, are the
spermathecæ; H, H, the tubes opening into the oviduct; and D, D, the
tubes opening outward. Fig. 51 is the epigynum of another closely
allied species, where the tubes D, D, are very much elongated and
twisted up, corresponding to the long discharge-tube of the palpal
organ of the male of the same spider, Fig. 48.

[Illustration: Fig. 49.]

[Illustration: Fig. 50.]

[Illustration: Fig. 51.]


USE OF THE PALPAL ORGANS AND EPIGYNUM.

When the reproductive cells of the male spider are mature, he
discharges the liquid containing them on a little web spun for the
purpose; dips his palpal organs into it, and in a few moments takes up
the whole, it is supposed, into the little sacs, Figs. 47, 48, inside
the bulb; then he seeks the female, and inserts the palpal organs into
her epigynum. The soft part at the base of the organ swells up, and
presses in the discharge-tube, and probably forces out the contents of
the bulb into the spermathecæ, E, E, from which it escapes, in course
of time, by the tubes, H, H, into the oviduct, and fertilizes the eggs
about the time they are laid.

[Illustration: Fig. 52.]

One palpal organ is usually inserted at a time, and, after a while,
taken out, and replaced by the other; this change being repeated many
times by the same spider. Among the _Lycosidæ_, Fig. 10, the male leaps
on the back of the female, and is carried about by her, Fig. 52. He
reaches down at the side of her abdomen, and inserts his palpi in the
epigynum underneath. In _Linyphia_ and _Theridion_ the male and female
live peaceably together for a long time in the same web. The male
reaches from in front under the female, Fig. 53, and inserts his palpal
organs, one after the other, for hours together. In _Agalena_ the male
is the stronger of the two sexes. He takes the female in his mandibles,
and lays her on one side, Fig. 54, and inserts one of his palpi. After
a time, he rises on tiptoe, turns her around and over, so that she lies
on the other side, with her head in the opposite direction, and inserts
the other palpus. The female lies as though dead. In _Nephila_ and
_Argiope_, where the male is very small, he stands on the upper edge of
the web while the female is in her usual position in the centre. After
feeling the web with his feet for some time, he runs down to the centre
so lightly as not to disturb the female, and climbs about over her body
for some minutes, in an apparently aimless way. She takes no notice
of him at first; but at length, especially if he approach the under
side of her abdomen, she turns, and snaps at him with her jaws. He is
usually nimble enough to dodge between her legs, and drop out of the
web, and, after a while, climbs up to the top, and begins over again.
In these encounters the males are often injured; they frequently lose
some of their legs: and I have seen one, that had only four out of his
eight left, still standing up to his work.

[Illustration: Fig. 53.]

[Illustration: Fig. 54.]

[Illustration: Fig. 55.]

At length the male succeeds in getting under the female’s abdomen, and
inserting his palpi into the epigynum. Fig. 55 shows the female hanging
in the web, with the male at _a_, with his legs grasped around her
abdomen.

The habits of these spiders furnish the grounds for the popular story,
that female spiders regularly eat the males. No doubt it occasionally
happens, where the female is the larger of the two; but in many species
they live together for some time in the same web, or in a nest spun for
the purpose; in some cases, before the female has reached the adult
state.


LAYING EGGS.

When the eggs are mature, the female proceeds, like the male, to make
a little web, and lays the eggs on it. Then she covers them over with
silk, forming a cocoon, in which the young remain till some time after
they are hatched. The laying of the eggs is seldom seen; for the spider
does it in the night, or in retired places; and often, in confinement,
refuses to lay at all.

[Illustration: Fig. 56.]

The female _Drassus_, Fig. 56, spins a little web A across her nest,
and drops the eggs E on it, as in the figure. They are soft, and mixed
with liquid, and are discharged in one or two drops, like jelly. They
quickly soak up the liquid, and become dry on the surface, sometimes
adhering slightly together.

After the eggs are laid, the spider covers them with silk, drawing the
threads over them from one side to the other, and fastening them to the
edges of the web below. When the covering is complete, she bites off
the threads that hold the cocoon to the nest, and finishes off the
edges with her jaws.

The _Lycosidæ_ make their cocoons in the same way, but rounder, and
showing only slightly the seam where the upper part was attached to the
lower.

[Illustration: Fig. 57.]

[Illustration: Fig. 58.]

The _Lycosas_ carry their cocoons about, attached to the spinnerets, as
in Fig. 57, bumping them over the stones without injury to the young
inside.

Many spiders make their cocoons against a flat surface, where they
remain attached by one side. _Attus mystaceus_ spins, before laying,
a thick nest of white silk on the under side of a stone. In this she
thickens a circular patch on the upper side, next the stone, and
discharges her eggs upward against it, Fig. 58. They adhere, and are
covered with white silk. I once had a spider of this species lay her
eggs, in confinement, in a nest the under side of which had been cut
away. Instead of completing the cocoon properly, she ate the eggs
immediately after laying. _Epeira strix_ spins, before laying, a bunch
of loose silk, Fig. 59. She touches her spinnerets, as in the figure on
the left, draws them away a short distance, at the same time pressing
upward with the hind-feet, as in the figure on the right; then moves the
abdomen a little sidewise, and attaches the band of threads so as to
form a loop. She keeps making these loops, turning round, at the same
time, so as to form a rounded bunch of them, into the middle of which
she afterwards lays the eggs, as in Fig. 60. The eggs, which are like
a drop of jelly, are held up by the loose threads till the spider has
time to spin under them a covering of stronger silk. _Epeira vulgaris_
makes a similar cocoon upward, downward, or sidewise, as may be most
convenient.

[Illustration: Fig. 59.]

[Illustration: Fig. 60.]

Most of the _Theridiidæ_ make cocoons of loose silk, held up in the web
by numerous threads. Some hang the cocoon by a stem, Fig. 61.

The large species of _Argiope_ makes a big pear-shaped cocoon hanging
in grass or bushes, Fig. 62. A stem of loose brown silk is first made,
and under this the eggs attached (at any rate this had been done in one
which had been abandoned unfinished); then a cup-shaped piece is made
under the eggs; the bunch of loose silk is spun over all, and finally
the paper-like shell.

[Illustration: Fig. 61.]

[Illustration: Fig. 62.]


ESCAPE FROM THE COCOON.

These cocoons of _Argiope_ are made late in the summer, and the young
stay in them till the next season. Out of six hundred cocoons collected
by Wilder in the spring, less than a quarter were entire, the rest
being pierced, or torn in some way, by birds or insects; so that the
spiders were saved the trouble of gnawing their way out, as they can if
obliged to.

I once noticed a small _Theridion_ gnawing at its soft cocoon, and
found that one side had been made in this way much thinner than the
rest of the cocoon. I put her, with the cocoon, in a bottle where I
could watch her; and she soon commenced biting again, and kept it up
the rest of the day. The following night the young came out.

Many spiders remain by their cocoons till the young come out; but other
species, making similar ones, go away, or die, and the young get out
themselves when they are old enough.

The young of _Micaria_ cut a smooth round hole in their paper-like
cocoon, just large enough for them to come out one by one.


PARASITES.

The eggs in the cocoon are very liable to be eaten by parasitic
insects. Certain wingless _Hymenoptera_ are always hunting around in the
neighborhood of spiders’ nests, and may sometimes be seen trying to
stick their ovipositor through a cocoon. If they succeed, their eggs
hatch before the spiders, and eat the latter up. Other parasites lay
eggs on the backs of young spiders, and the larva lives attached to the
outside till it gets nearly as large as the spider itself.


GROWTH IN THE EGG.

The egg of a spider, like that of any other animal, is a cell which
separates from the body of the female, and afterwards unites with one
or more cells which have separated from the body of the male. This
fertilization of the eggs probably takes place when they have reached
their full size, and are about to be laid.

After the eggs are laid and hardened, it is very easy to watch their
development. They grow just as well anywhere else as in the cocoon,
and, in order to see through the shell, it is only necessary to cover
the egg to be examined, with oil, alcohol, or any liquid that will wet
it.

[Illustration: Fig. 63.]

Just after it is laid, the egg looks like Fig. 63, _a_; or, if the egg
is more opaque, only the ends of the lobes can be seen like irregular
lumps. The first sign of growth is the division into two, Fig. 63, _b_.
These divide into four, into eight, and so on, Fig. 63, _c_, _d_. At
first the divisions are all alike; but at length they divide into two
kinds,—small ones, with a dark spot in the middle, which cover the
outside of the egg; and larger ones that occupy the inside. Fig. 63,
_e_, shows an egg at this stage, where the large inner cells show
through the layer of outer ones. Fig. 63, _f_, is a section of the same
egg. The stages shown in _b_ and _c_ are seldom clearly seen, because
the divisions are crowded together and too opaque; but _d_ and _e_
can be watched in any common spider’s eggs. The rate of growth varies
according to circumstances. Some eggs laid in autumn develop slowly all
winter, while others laid in summer are ready to hatch in a fortnight.

In the eggs of the long-legged cellar spider, laid in June, in about
four or five days the young spider becomes lengthened out into a sort
of barrel shape; and six whitish rings run half way round it, on each
of which appears soon after a pair of little knobs, one each side, Fig.
64, _a_. These are the six segments of the thorax, and the six pairs of
limbs; and their gradual growth is shown in Fig. 64, _b_, _c_, _d_. In
_a_ there is no sign of a head or abdomen, except the more opaque ends
of the embryo; but shortly after there appears an opaque knob at one
end, Fig. 64, _b_, under which is a pair of little knobs, such as
appeared at first on the thoracic segments; then appear two pairs, then
three, and so on, till there are six pairs, which mark the six segments
of the abdomen. Up to this time, the embryo has been rolled up with the
under side outward; but now it begins to turn, and in a day or two has
its back outward, Fig. 64, _c_. The constriction between the thorax and
abdomen begins about this time; and in a few days more the spider is
ready to hatch, Fig. 64, _d_.

[Illustration: Fig. 64.]


YOUNG SPIDERS.

The hatching occupies a day or two. The shell, or rather skin, cracks
along the lines between the legs, and comes off in rags; and the spider
slowly stretches itself, and creeps about. It is now pale and soft, and
without any hairs or spines, and only small claws on its feet; but, in
a few days, it gets rid of another skin, and now begins to look like a
spider. The eyes become darker colored; marks on the thorax become more
distinct, and a dark stripe appears across the edge of each segment of
the abdomen. The hairs are long, and few in number, and arranged in
rows across the abdomen and along the middle of the thorax, Fig. 65.
Before the next moult, they usually leave the cocoon, and for a time
live together in a web spun in common. A brood of young _Epeira_ may
often be seen looking like a ball of wool in the top of a bush, while
below them, connected by threads to their roost, are the skins left at
their second moult, and farther down, also connected by threads, the
cocoon with the first skins.

[Illustration: Fig. 65.]

_Dolomedes_ spins a nest in which the young live for a while after
hatching.

The young of the running spiders, _Lycosidæ_, when they come out of the
cocoon get on their mother’s back, and are carried round by her for
some time.

Where large broods of young spiders live together, they soon begin
to eat one another; and, if kept in confinement, one or two out of a
cocoon full, may be raised without any other food.

Wilder noticed this in _Nephila plumipes_, and believes it is the
natural habit of young spiders, and not the result of confinement.

[Illustration: Fig. 66.]

[Illustration: Fig. 67.]

As spiders grow larger, they have to moult from time to time. This
process is shown by Wilder in Figs. 66, 67; and I have seen the same
operation in _Argiope_. The spider hangs herself by a thread from the
spinnerets to the centre of the web. The skin cracks around the thorax,
just over the first joints of the legs; and the top part falls forward,
being held only at the front edge. The skin of the abdomen breaks
irregularly along the sides and back, and shrinks together in a bunch.
The spider now hangs by a short thread from the spinnerets, and works
to free her legs from the old skin, Fig. 66. This takes about quarter
of an hour; and then she drops down, hanging by her spinnerets like a
wet rag, Fig. 67.

If struck while in this condition, she can do nothing, not even
draw her legs away. After ten or fifteen minutes, the legs begin to
strengthen; and she draws them gradually up toward her, works them up
and down a few times, and is soon able to get into the web again.

Blackwall observed nine moults in _Tegenaria civilis_, a spider that
lives several years. Many species, and among them some of the largest,
live only one year, hatching in the winter, leaving the cocoon in early
summer, and laying eggs and dying in autumn. Other species seem to
require two years for their growth; hatching in summer, passing their
first winter half grown, growing up the next summer, but laying no eggs
till the second spring. Some species are found adult at all seasons,
and may live several years.

After spiders have passed their second moult, they usually live in the
same places, and follow the same habits, as the adults.

The running spiders live usually on the ground, often near water, but
some kinds in the hottest and dryest places. A few species live near
water, and are accustomed to run about on its surface, without becoming
wet. The _Theridiidæ_ almost all live in the shade, and always upside
down in their webs. Some species live always in caves; and one in the
deepest part of the Mammoth Cave has no eyes. Some spiders live only on
high mountains, never appearing below the tree line. Some species seem
to prefer certain kinds of plants. The horizontal branches of spruces,
for instance, are particularly convenient for the webs of some species
of _Theridion_. The water-spider, that builds its nest and lives on
water-plants, has been already mentioned, and also the _Argyrodes_,
that makes its home in the webs of other spiders. During winter immense
numbers of spiders that have spent the summer under stones, in webs,
and on plants, hide away among fallen leaves, and there live through
the coldest and wettest weather, ready to move on the first warm day.
During a thaw they often come out on the snow in great numbers.

Several house spiders have probably been imported, like rats, and are
found all over the world; while other most common species never spread
beyond the countries where they are most abundant.




BOOKS ABOUT SPIDERS.


CLASSIFICATION.—Thorell’s “Genera of European Spiders,” in
“Acta Regiæ Societatis Scientiarum Upsalensis,” 1869, and Thorell’s
“Synonymes of European Spiders,” contain a complete history of the
classification of the spiders of Northern Europe, with references to
all the descriptions of genera and species, and remarks on the use of
names and groups by different authors. The great resemblance between
the European and North-American spider faunæ make these the most useful
books for American students. Simon’s “Arachnides de France,” a work
not yet completed, describes all the spiders in France, and refers to
descriptions of the other European species. It contains tables by which
the genus and species to which any spider belongs can be found by the
use of a few prominent characters.

    ANATOMY.—Siebold’s “Anatomy of the Invertebrata”
      contains a good general account. Bertkau describes,
      in “Traschel’s Archiv für Naturgeschichte,” the
      mandibles in 1870, the respiratory-organs in 1872, and
      the sexual organs in 1875. Oeffinger describes the
      spinning-glands in “Archiv für Microscopische Anatomie,”
      1860.

    EMBRYOLOGY.—Claparède, Utrecht, 1862, and
      Balbiani, in “Annales des Sciences Naturelles,” 1872,
      describe the growth of the egg from segmentation
      to hatching. H. Ludwig, in “Zeitschrift für
      Wissenschaftliche Zoölogie,” 1876, gives an account of the
      segmentation in eggs of Philodromus.

    HABITS.—Walckenaer’s “Histoire Naturelle des
      Apteres” goes over the whole subject. Blackwall, in
      “Researches in Zoölogy,” 1834, describes the web-making
      of Epeira, and the flying habits of spiders. Blackwall
      also writes on habits in “The Spiders of Great Britain
      and Ireland,” published by the Ray Society, 1864, and in
      various papers in “Transactions of the Linnæan Society,”
      1833 to 1841. Menge’s Lebensweise der Arachniden in
      “Schriften der Naturforchenden Gesellschaft in Danzig,”
      1843, goes over the whole subject, and is particularly
      useful on the sexual habits. The same author continues
      the subject in “Preussische Spinnen,” published by the
      same society, beginning in 1866, and not yet finished.
      The habits of the water-spider are described by Mr. Bell
      in “Journal of the Linnæan Society,” 1857. The trap-door
      spiders and their habits are described by J. T. Moggridge
      in “Harvesting Ants and Trap-door Spiders,” published
      by L. Reeve & Co., London, 1873, and Supplement, 1874.
      Prof. B. G. Wilder has published several papers on the
      habits of American spiders, the most useful of which are
      the following: on Nephila plumipes from South Carolina,
      “Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History,”
      1865; Practical Use of Spider’s Silk in “The Galaxy,”
      July, 1869; Habits of Epeira riparia, Moulting of Nephila
      plumipes, and Nests of Epeira, Nephila, and Hyptiotes, in
      “Proceedings of American Association for Advancement of
      Science,” 1873; the Triangle Spider in “Popular Science
      Monthly,” 1875.




INDEX.


    Abdomen, 12, 16.
    Adhesive threads, 67.
    Adult characters of spiders, 87.
    Agalena, web of, 55.
    Agalenidæ, 26.
    Age of spiders, 112.
    Air-sacs, 22.
    Air-tubes, 12.
    Anyphena, flying of, 84.
    Argiope, web of, 67.
    Argyrodes, 58.
    Attidæ, 28.
    Attus, flying of, 85.

    Bertkau, experiments on poison of spiders, 34.
    Blackwall, age of spiders, 112;
      experiments on poison, 35;
      on blowing out of threads, 80;
      on flying spiders, 82.
    Blind spiders, 113.
    Blowing of threads, 80.
    Breathing-organs, 16, 22.

    Calamistrum, 73.
    California trap-door spider, 49.
    Care of young, 104.
    Cave spiders, 113.
    Ciniflonidæ, 72.
    Classification of spiders, 11, 23.
    Claws, 14.
    Cobwebs, 54.
    Cocoons, 98.
    Colors of spiders, 17, 19.
    Concealment of spiders, 70.
    Copulation, 94.
    Crab spiders, 29.
    Cribellum, 72.
    Curled webs, 72.

    Darwin on flying spiders, 83.
    Dictyna, spinning of, 73;
      regular webs of, 74.
    Distribution of spiders, 113.
    Doleschall, experiments on poison of spiders, 34.
    Dolomedes, nest for young, 53.
    Dorsal groove, 17.
    Drassidiæ, 26.

    Eggs, laying, 98;
      growth of, 105.
    Embryo spiders, 105.
    Epeiridæ, 31.
    Epigynum, 92.
    Erigone, heads of male, 88.
    Eyes, 17.

    Feet, 14.
    Flying of spiders, 79.
    Food of trap-door spiders, 50.

    Growth of spiders, 86.

    Habitats of spiders, 113.
    Hatching, 107.
    Heads of male spiders, 88.
    Heart, 21.
    Hoisting captured insects, 60.
    Holes, 44.
    House spiders, 114.

    Intestine, 21.

    Jumping spiders, 28.

    Laying eggs, 98.
    Legs, 14.
    Linyphia communis, web of, 58.
    Linyphia marmorata, web of, 58.
    Lycosa, flying of, 81.
    Lycosidæ, 27.

    Mandibles, 33.
    Maxillæ, 15.
    Moggridge, on poison of spiders, 36;
      on trap-door spiders, 46.
    Moulting, 110.
    Mouth, 59.
    Mygalidæ, 23.

    Nephila, web of, 66.
    Nervous system, 22.
    Nests, 52.
    Noise by a spider, 16.

    Œsophagus, 19.

    Palpi, 14.
    Palpal organs, 89.
    Parasitic spider, 58.
    Parasites of spiders, 104.
    Pholcus, habit of, when frightened, 61.
    Poison of spiders, 34.
    Poison-glands, 23.

    Regular web of Dictyna, 74.
    Repair of webs, 67.
    Reproduction, 94.
    Reproductive organs, 22.
    Round webs, 61.
    Running spiders, 27.

    Saunders, S. S., on digging of trap-door spiders, 50.
    Sexes of spiders, 86.
    Shooting of threads, 79.
    Six-eyed spiders, 25.
    Shaking web when frightened, 70.
    Spines, 14.
    Spinnerets, 39, 41.
    Spinning-glands, 40.
    Spinning-tubes, 40.
    Spots on top of abdomen, 17.
    Stomach, 21.
    Sucking-stomach, 19.

    Tame spiders, 37.
    Tarantula, 36.
    Theridion, web of, 60.
    Theridiidæ, 30.
    Thomisidæ, 29.
    Thorax, 12.
    Thread, 38, 42.
    Tracheæ, 17.
    Trap-door nests, 44.
    Triangle spider, 75.
    Tubes, 52.
    Tying up insects, 43.

    Use of spider’s web, 70.

    Water spider, 53.
    Wilder, on moulting of spiders, 110;
      Triangle spider, 75;
      use of spider’s silk, 70.
    Winter habits of spiders, 113.

    Young spiders, 107;
      escape from cocoon, 103.

    Zilla, web of, 65.

_Electrotyped by C. J. Peters & Son, Boston, Mass._




Transcriber’s Notes:

  Underscores “_” before and after a word or phrase indicate _italics_
    in the original text.
  Small capitals have been converted to SOLID capitals.
  The illustrations have been moved so they do not break up paragraphs.
  Typographical errors have been silently corrected but other variations
    in spelling and punctuation remain unaltered.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Structure and Habits of Spiders, by 
James Henry Emerton

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STRUCTURE AND HABITS OF SPIDERS ***

***** This file should be named 58111-0.txt or 58111-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/8/1/1/58111/

Produced by Paul Marshall, Bryan Ness and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
